1) Prepare your sim(s) to produce simulated data from a planned test. You may need to then train the driver(s) to do this because ... just because. 
2) 2) Determine how much area you have for a skid pad. For handling tests, you need a lot of area unless you carefully place your maneuvers. 
3) find out how much speed your car can pull in a turn. That sets the radius of a Constant Radius test venue. 
4) Find a place to park your raw data so it can be reviewed at a later time and compared to conditions that change in the car. 
5) train your driver to give you a score from 1-10 for conditions you test and they have to drive. This will tell you what test metrics influence the car's rating. 
6) create some artificial data for the sim that produces known test results. Make sure you sim can get you the right answers before any arguments start. 
7) Post some cornering data for users to ponder, maybe even process for you. I do this quite a bit. 
8) accept what 'validation', 'precision' and 'accuracy', and 'repeatability' means in an engineering context. I.E.: Is the sim 'good enough' to produce real improvements in the car? do you get the wrong answers but the same ones every time to 8 significant figures ? If you have 3 drivers, can they give you the same test results, or does their testing technique fail to produce consistent results for an unchanged car, as a group or even just by themselves? 
9) Have enough new or scuffed tires on hand so tire wear doesn't ruin your conclusions. If you have access to tire test machinery, also test some samples AFTER your road tests are run. I always had all 4 tires tested before and after because having 4 identical tires is a myth. 
10) Don't settle for single point correlation: You need the confidence that the gradients for your calculated numbers and curves are the same as those from your sim. Vehicles operate by integrating forces and moments. The integrands are derivatives. Sometimes you hear the word Jacobian. This is an array of cross partial derivatives (gradients). You can drive from Detroit to Chicago via Kalamazoo or via Miami. Just getting there isn't confidence building and nobody will believe the Miami route is a good move, including me. 
11) have an idea of what your road test results ought to be. That's so your A/D folks use the units and signs that you expect. 
12) Speed times yawrate is a decent approximation of steady state lateral acceleration and is produced by many commercial measurement packages. It is NOT lateral acceleration though if the sideslip component is omitted (the cheap way around). 
13) Don't mess up the car with a lot of aero influencers unless you test at speeds below lets say 100 kph. Standoffs, antennas, even unrepresentative wheel force transducer modules with non-standard wheels will mess you up. Aero AND compliances are affected. 
14) testing is not racing. some teams just cant figure out that they need more than a stop watch to validate a simulation. 
15) If your results don't compare very well, look back and try to determine which end of the car is the problem. This means prepping for tests that highlight each axle. 
16) Run some Lab/Shop tests before you head out to the skidpad. If the car is junk in the shop, it ain't gonna get any better out on the test track. So, wheel weights, ride steer/ride toe measured on a wheel aligner. Front & rear please. Count the threads showing for tierod ends (meaning equal length as standard), and a steering ratio test for overall ratio, Ackermann error, and lumpiness. Last but not least, calibrate everybody's tire pressure gauge. If anybody shows up with a pencil gauge, shoot them. Oh, 1 more: if you have K&C machinery on hand or available, run your tests on it in as it will be road tested, probably meaning 4 different wheel weights, driver, fuel, ballast, instruments loaded. Otherwise, you won't be road testing that perfect car seen in 'blue prints'. Chances are that car will never exist in a testable form. Maybe not ever even in Race Trim.


Originally posted by Bill Cobb
